---
title: 'The AMITT Framework for Describing Disinformation Events'
id: 3
excerpt: An overview of the first draft of AMITT, and where we go from here. 
date: 2019-08-13
permalink: /posts/2019/08/amitt-framework/
tags:
  - disinformation
---

## Adversarial Misinformation and Influence Tactics and Techniques (AMITT)

The Credibility Coalition [AMITT framework](https://github.com/misinfosecproject/amitt_framework) is a framework for describing disinformation incidents. It is the creation of the Misinfosec Working Group, whose raison d'etre is to "work on adapting information security (infosec) practices to help track and counter misinformation, and is designed as far as possible to fit existing infosec practices and tools." The style is based on the [MITRE ATT&CK framework](https://github.com/mitre-attack/attack-website/).

Thanks to this origin, there are already STIX templates for many overlapping concepts in infosec and misinformation: the _report_, _campaign_, _course of action_, _threat actor_, _attack pattern_, _tool_, _observed data_, _indicator_, and _vulnerability_ objects are all the same. Tentatively, the term _incident_ in a misinformation context maps to a STIX _intrusion set_, and a _narrative_ maps to _malware_, where a narrative could take the form of a story, accusation, or meme.

What throws me off a bit about the STIX template, and hence also the AMITT draft, is the relationship that a campaign is attributed to an intrusion set. An _intrusion set_ refers to "a grouped set of adversarial behaviors and resources with common properties that is believed to be orchestrated by a single organization." This could encompass multiple campaigns, and could occur over a very long period of time. Based on this definition, it's not clear to me how to define the beginning and end of an intrusion set, except that perhaps every campaigned attributed to a single entity is an intrusion set, in which case the threat actor alone would be enough to define the set (although you would still perhaps want another term to describe this set of activities).

When we use the term _incident_, this connotes (to me, at least) an individual event. I would think incidents could be attributed to campaigns, rather than campaigns to incidents (intrusion sets). Moreover, it's not clear that there's any justification to deviating from the STIX vocabulary, if we mean the same thing.

However, I do think there's room in both the STIX and AMITT frameworks for an "incident," where incident refers to a single event wherein a threat actor uses a tool or malware to exploit a vulnerability, _as part_ of a campaign (which is again part of an intrusion set). I'm thinking about intermediate events that further the objective of the campaign, but do not constitute the entirety of the campaign. In infosec/STIX world, an incident could be gaining access to a corporate network, as part of a campaign to leak sensitive data. In misinformation/AMITT world, an incident could be getting a high-profile individual to retweet a meme, as part of a campaign to sow discord or encourage non-voting.

Folks with more STIX knowledge, feel free to correct my understanding of its use——maybe this is already covered in some way that I'm not aware of.
